Hello and welcome back to the course on
R programming. Let's go ahead and solve
this challenge.
These are things that we are after so
let's go ahead and calculate them. So
profit, what is profit going to be?
Profit is create a vector, profit is
revenue minus expense, run that expenses,
run that and let's just check it.
Now, there we go so we've got our profit
vector and this is our first vector
operation in this challenge.
Awesome, alright profit after tax
for each months. So first we're going to
calculate tax. Tax is going to be profit
multiplied by 0.3 right? Run that and let's have a
look at tax what we see here is that
there is more than two decimal points and
the challenges specifically said that we
should perform calculations at the
precision of one cent. So we need to
round this, so we're going to round
profit and but how do we use round?
Yeah how do we use this function? If I run
this now, it did work but what do I get? I
get the get no decimal points at all
which is not correct.
So how do I find out what to do with round?
Well let's find out more about this
function right. Round, question mark and here we have
rounding numbers, so let's zoom in zoom
into this area over here and have a
look. If I scroll down I will see that
there's my round function and it's got X
is the vector that I'm passing it and
then digits is an additional variable by
default it's 0. So digits is an integer
indicating the number of decimal places
round or significant. We don't need
this thread that's for different function
of number of decimal places to be used.
Negative values are allowed see details.
Ok so that basically means how many
decimal places we want to use and we
want to use two. So let's put in two. There
are two ways we can just say two or we
can say digits equals to both are
identical because digit is the second
variable. Anyway second argument of the
function anyway so let's go ahead and
run that and check out, so there we go
we've got our precision as requested
good. Now let's calculate profit after
tax by the way in
R you can simply put dots inside the
names of the variables it's totally fine
unlike other programming languages and
that makes it easier to separate words
you don't have to use capital letters. So
we're going to say profit- tax by the
way if you look here this is our tax
values. You'll see that some of the
months have negative tax and that's
totally fine that's what was a noted in
the challenge you can have negative tax.
So profit after tax is profit- tax as
check out if I type in profit, it
comes up for me already, so there we go
that's our profit after tax.
Alright we've done that. What's next?
Profit margin for each month equals to
profit after tax divided by revenue so let's go
ahead and calculate that. Profit margin
is profit after tax divided by revenue basically
it means how much of your revenue that
you're making in this business is
actually going becoming the final
profit, so some of the revenue is going
into expenses, some of the revenues going
into tax and so on so how much does the
business actually get to keep out of all
the sales that it makes? So revenue is the
same as sales divided by revenue and we get
profit margin. Let's have a look at it.
Ok so that's not exactly what we wanted, we
wanted a percentage right with no
decimal point, so let's go ahead and do that.
It will say round by two so that will
already get us closer and now we have to
multiply by a hundred to get a
percentage and there we go, so that our
percentage. No percentage sign and
that's ok as the challenge said does
that we don't really need a percentage sign. So as you
can see twelve percent profit margin
meaning that of every dollar that the
business sold so if like if it's a big
shop then if it's sold goods for one
dollar then it gets to keep twelve cents
after the expenses are paid and
after of tax expenses in that first
month in January they ate up
eighty-eight percent of 88 cents for
every dollar business made, then in the
February they ate up 82 cents so it's good to
understand these things like what are we
actually
calculating here. Profit margin in March
was negative meaning that for every
dollar of sales that the business made
the business have to pay one dollar
thirty cents in expenses right and if
you look at the tax for that month which
was somewhere up here it was actually
negative, that's okay then that's normal
because if your profits negative then
well in Australia anyway and so this is
like we might not be in all
jurisdictions but in Australia if your
profits negative then you get a deferred
tax asset. Meaning that next time when
you pay tax
you will get to pay less tax so that's a
good thing.
Anyway, so but basically the expenses
were very high in these months and
that's why the profit margin was
negative and basically means that you
know if the business wasn't operating of
course I guess we're getting into too
much finance here if the business wasn't
operating then it would have an going cost
like rent and so on so maybe it would
have made even higher loss but for some
businesses that don't have ongoing costs.
This means that they should probably
just thought worked in those months.
Anyway
it made the business made up for it in
the coming months following that. Alright
so good months,
let's look for the good months. How do we
find good months? Where the profit after
tax was greater than the mean for the
year,
alright then the mean profit after tax
for the year so first thing we're going
to need to find the mean profit after
tax. We're going to say mean, I'm not
going to type profit after tax. I'm
just gonna say pat, mean pat is going
to be mean of the vector profit after
tax. So we're taking a vector which
is profit after tax and we're taking the
average of all these numbers using this
function of mean and if we run that line,
then we look up mean pat we'll see that
that is our value. So we get one value in
return.
Ok so that's our mean pat, now we need to
check the good months. Good months is
going to be a vector as was stated in
the challenge good month is months where
profit after tax is greater than the
mean for the year which is mean pat.
Check that and have a look at good months.
So now we have a vector of true
false, true false so we first one for the
good then we had four negative months so if we go
to profit after tax. You'll see even
though this month is positive that means
for the year is this.
So it's 1700 dollars in the second month
in February was only 1300 dollars so
therefore makes sense that this was not
a good month even though it was positive
it was a bad month it was below average
and our accounting friends said that
that's how they're going to determine
good and bad month. So we've got four bad
month here then a streak of four good
months then we got two more bad months
looks like these guys are doing well
in summer, so january, february, march
april, may and june, july, august see these
things these kind of inside so you can
derive a radio while you've been doing
such basic challenge. So these guys this
company seems to be doing better and
summer so maybe you can tell that you're
counting friends hey by the way I did
what you asked me plus I noticed that
they have a streak of good month
summer and what's this December, January.
Wow ok what does that tell us? So summer is
summer holidays at school right and
August August to over the January
February, March, April, May, June, July, August,
September people go back to school here
and then December-January right. What
does that mean? Well again holidays, so
maybe this business is holiday oriented
and they are doing better in holiday
maybe like if you were analyzing the
business and trying to give some advice
maybe you'd say hey you should work in
in the Holiday period, you're better off
working in the holiday spirit.
Ok so that's just how I think when I
performed things like this when I work
with data because working with data
is interesting right? Tells you things
that you otherwise wouldn't wouldn't see.
Alright so good months, profit after
tax, we've done the good months. How do we get
the bad months now? So bad months is the
opposite of good months so let's just say
good months and let's practice something
we learned in the first section. Let's
practice exclamation mark, exclamation mark is the opposite right? Gives
you the opposite of a logical expression.
We know that this is already a logical
vector, if we take the opposite of the
logical vector we'll get an opposite
logical vector.
So let's type that in that month and
let's have a look at it,
so if you compare the two, see true and
then became false, false became true
false became true for the weekend
true,false became true true became false
true became false, so now you see the bad
months. Bad months are here and bad months are
here. Okay makes sense now let's move on
to the next one oh that was the exclamation
so let's copy that
put it in here bad months. Ok going to
make some space now the best month as
you remember in the challenge we want to
be still want a vector so we want just a
vector of false false false false false
and true just for the best month.
How do we find the best month? Well first
we're going to need to compare to the
maximum right revenue. So we could do
the same thing we could create max p80
and put it in a variable put the max value
in a variable then compare to it or we can
just do it on the fly so let's practice
that, we're going to say best months
profit after tax and we're going to
compare so it has to equal exactly
remember it has to be a double equal
sign equal to max profit after tax. So
what we're doing here is similar to what
we're doing here
right? So we're comparing the R
studio going to or R is going to
compare each and every one of these
values to this value that's how it will
work right? Remember the whole notion of
recycling vector so here we have a
vector of 12 values and here we have a
vector up just one value so and then
what R will do is we'll take
this one vector to compare and put like
recycle it 12 times and so then this whole
vector will have an identical length in
length of vector to be compared to. It's
just this is thinking of not we just
think about accounting just now we think
about programming how how programming
works in the background well that's how
it works so basically you're not just
comparing line by line right. You're not
comparing this value to this value this
value is this value. Remember working
vectorize operation so what is actually
going to happen is at this vector this
resulting vector of
length one which is over here. It needs to be
compared to a vector of length 12, then
what's gonna happen is this vector will
be recycled until it has length 12 and
then two vectors of length 12 will be
compared and then basically so you'll
have a vector this vector being so this
vector of 12 values been compared to
these 12 values, so basically this
vector on the right is going to be
created, is going to look like this
repeat I was just explaining here
what's going on. It's good to know because
that it helps you think in terms of
problems so basically the profit after
tax vector which is over here will be
compared to this vector and as a result
that we run the operation and we
haven't run this operation as a result
you'll get the best month vector which
is false, false, false, false, false, true, December was the best
month right? So this will be compared to
this. It will be false. This compared this one
here will be compared to this one false
is it equal? Not equal, this is equal
this equal not equal and so on until
let's just do its power through it not
equal and then still not equal, still not
equal this one to this one and then it
gets to this on it says AHA equal good
and that's how it gets this false...
true once again it's good to know these
things is good to think on the level
that your programming languages thinking
because you will get along better that
way.
Alright so and finally the worst month,
you can just simply do the exclamation mark operator
here because there's one worst month not
so we're going to say to this same thing
but instead of max and min and then say
worst worst month we go so let's check
that out there you false worst month was
February, March last month was March
alright good we've done everything we
needed to. Now let's print them all out
oh no actually we still need one more
thing, that's right because if we print
them out so if we look at profit will
not profit margin if you look at profit
after tax for instance it's got,
it's interesting dollars but we we're
asked what we're asked, let's go to the next
slide. Results for dollar values need to
be calculated with one percent precision, we did
that but need to be presented so the
final result needs to be presented in
the units of thousands with no decimal
points so let's do that now right. So all
of our dollar values which we're going
to include in the final result which are
just consistency to include revenue,
expenses, profit and profit after tax right?
So let's go ahead and fix them up units
of thousands.
Alright so revenue dot let's say dot
1000 just so we remember what it is, it's a
revenue and this is us practicing the
round operation so if we run that and
then we just look at revenue a thousand
whoops. You'll see that it's not rounded
properly right. We want units of
thousands but with no decimal point so
we want round and then not to because
if we do two will have two decimal
points we want just zero right or
because zero is a default value we can
just not even specify remember for
round here we saw that if we zoom in
here will see that the default value of
digits is actually 0 so you don't have
to specify if you want to get rid of the
just one point just do round.
Alright so that's revenue a thousand now
there's the same thing for X and says
dot thousand is round,
whoops expenses divided by thousand and then what
we're going to do profit dot thousand
actually I'm going to just copy this.
Ok so this was going to be profit and
profit over here. They should some music
playing in the background while I do this but
that's a reality of life right.
Profit sometimes in programming you
got to spend some time to create
something that is worth while.
Ok so we've done all of these so we
haven't run this in this and Oh viola,
we're done let's present the final
result output
because we're not going to export. We
haven't learned to export stuff and
things like that what we're going to do
is we're going to run this and as if
we're presenting to the client on our
computer so we're going to say there's a
revenue that you gave us as expenses
but presented in units of thousands and
there's our profit, there's a profit
after tax and you can see it's kind of
like smaller but the negative 1 is
greater because text can be negative
there's a profit margin and there's a
good months, bad months, best month, worst
months.
Ok so that's that that's the challenge
is done now I wanted to show you a bonus
a little bonus for the for sticking
around this long  guess for persevering
to the end of this challenge so what I
want to show you is something that we're
going to study in the next section of
the course and it's called matrices
right so we're going to create a matrix
now don't be afraid it's it's not like
in the movie, not just I'm not going to
offer you any life choices which is
going to create a matrix so we're going
to say just to follow this code and then
in the next section this is like a
preview of the next section you'll find
out what it all means.
So rbind so row bind and then we'll
just take all this stuff and put in here
and now we just have to put comments so
if I run this add creative matrix and
let's print it out now and have a look
at what it looks like.
No there it is uh-huh okay so not enough
space
let me fix that problem. I 'm going to
rerun this
there we go so you can see that what we
presented previously here is a bit like
kind of you know some of it is ok but
then it goes out of line and it's hard
to follow along if you look at this it
looks beautiful right and you'll notice
that all the true-falses have been
changed to 1 to 0 which makes sense right
and it's easy to read still a one is
true zero is false and everything is
nicely aligned. You've got the first
second but the months number of out by
the way you can you can totally change
this I 'll show you how the next section
how to change the headers here
the headers here so it looks much better
like this looks much better matrix and
now this is something much more
pleasurable to look at and you can
present this to your friends in order to
him who asked you to help them and
they'll be like they'll be pretty
impressed don't go wow that's that's
pretty cool
and there you go hope you're excited
about matrices we will talk about them
in the next part of the course but most
importantly I 'm pretty happy we got to
practice these vectors operations and
also combined financial statement
analysis with programming that's pretty
cool I think that's pretty and in the
previous section or statistics and
programming now its financial statement
analysis programming what's next right,
what's coming up next. Anyway happy
that you stuck around and thanks for
your attention and I look forward to
seeing you on the next tutorial until
then, happy coding.